# Wing-Bike-Sales-Analysis_Tosin

This analysis was carried out on Wing Bike Company whereby i carried out an analysis on the sales they made within the year 2011 to 2016. The analysis shows the various products that was sold, what countries they were sold, The revenue that each product generated, total number or quantity of product ordered etc. A total sum of 85m in revenue was generated by the company within this period. 

The dataset consists of the following product category;

Accessories
Bikes
Clothing

Each divided into sub categories

Data Source: Kaggle.com

Tool: Power BI

KEY INSIGHTS:

Observations

The following observations was made from the analysis

The year 2014 and 2016 has the highest product sales within the year 2011-2016 with a total of 29k product quantity each meanwhile, in the year 2011 there was a very low quantity of products that was sold with a total of 3k products sold.

The water bottle is one of the products with the highest purchase quantity within this period, it had a total order quantity of 164k

The United States made the highest product with a total of 39k followed by Australia with a total production of 24k and then Canada with a total of 14k and at the least is Germany with a total of 11k

The United States also made the most revenue as compared to other countries with a total sum of revenue of 28M followed by Australia with a sum of 21M and at the bottom is Canada with a total sum of 8M

I also observed that within the analysis period, the month of January and February has the least sum of revenue constantly generated, this could be attributed to the fact that it is the beginning of the year and also a celebration season hence people are focused on other items more useful to them for the season.

Recommendations

Since the year 2014 and 2016 made or generated the most revenue, I suggest carrying out a survey to know what really happened that year, what he company did differently that helped boost their sales that way, they can replicate the same thing and in other countries as well. I believe this would help increase sales leading to an increased revenue

A staff performance review would also help in identifying what staffs made the most sales, who the top performing staffs are and how they can share ideas that could help the sales team.

An increase in staff strength could also boost the sales made as this would mean that there are quite a number of people leading to higher expectations and higher targets. This could help the company with more sales

I also recommend an increase in production and supply of products to various countries especially the countries that generated the most revenue. this answers the question of demand and supply.

These are the insights i was able to derive from this analysis and with this i believe the company can take decisions on

what products need increase in production quantity?
what products sell more in various countries?
Who the top performing sales staff are?
The revenue that can be generated if they decide to increase production or supply quantity
What year had the most sales? etc.
